README.md, before:

# Yggdrasil

Build Status: [![Build status](https://badge.buildkite.com/20f068d74db24be50d79ac4710defa74e19d5d912e31f9bda2.svg)](https://buildkite.com/julialang/yggdrasil)

![Yggdrasil](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1282691/177174254-aa90664e-5c20-4ea3-9938-34de961dc198.png)

This repository contains recipes for building binaries for Julia packages using [BinaryBuilder.jl](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/BinaryBuilder.jl).

## Contributing

For detailed information about contributing, go to ["CONTRIBUTING.md"](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Yggdrasil/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). For a quick overview, continue reading.

To update the version to build for an existing recipe, simply open a PR to this repository making the required tweaks. This usually boils down to only updating the version number and the source (e.g., URL and hash for an archive, or the revision for a git repository) of the relevant `build_tarballs.jl` file, but in some cases more changes may be needed. For an example, see [this PR](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Yggdrasil/pull/8833). The version number should be easy to find, and the URL + hash can be found by clicking the release, clicking the final commit in the release, and copying the information from the URL bar.

To contribute a new recipe, you can either
* use `BinaryBuilder.run_wizard()`, which will automatically open a pull request to this repository after a successfull build for all requested platforms
* Copy another build recipe using it as a template, and then open a manual pull request to this repository

Yggdrasil builds the tarballs using `master` version of BinaryBuilder.jl, which requires Julia 1.3.0 or later versions.  Note that this BinaryBuilder.jl version has some differences compared to v0.1.4 and the builders generated are slightly different.  You are welcome to contribute builders written for  BinaryBuilder.jl v0.1.4, but they will likely need minor adjustements.

[Buildkite CI](https://buildkite.com/julialang/yggdrasil) is used to test that the builders can successfully produce the tarballs.

If you prefer to test your manual buildscript before opening the pull request, we suggest installing `BinaryBuilder.jl` on Julia 1.3 or any following release and running `julia --color=yes build_tarballs.jl --verbose --debug` locally.  On MacOS, you will need to have `docker` installed for this to work.  

## Using the generated tarballs

### JLL packages

The last versions of BinaryBuilder make use of the [`Artifacts` system](https://julialang.github.io/Pkg.jl/dev/artifacts/) shipping in Julia 1.3.  This means that BinaryBuilder no longer generates `build.jl` files that are placed into your Julia package's `deps/` folder, but instead generates whole Julia packages (known colloquially as "jll" packages) that are placed within the [JuliaBinaryWrappers organization](https://github.com/JuliaBinaryWrappers/).  Merged pull requests to Yggdrasil result in new versions of these wrapper packages being generated, uploaded and registered, allowing your client Julia code to simply invoke `using LibFoo_jll` to get ahold of your binaries with no need for a `Pkg.build()` step.  (This will, of course, only be the case for Julia 1.3+).

We encourage Julia developers to use JLL packages for their libraries.  Read the [documention of BinaryBuilder](https://juliapackaging.github.io/BinaryBuilder.jl/dev/jll/) to learn how to use them.

Here are a few examples of pull requests of Julia packages switching to using JLL package to provide the prebuilt binaries to the users:

* [Cairo.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGraphics/Cairo.jl/pull/293)
* [FFTW.jl](https://github.com/JuliaMath/FFTW.jl/pull/122)
* [GSL.jl](https://github.com/JuliaMath/GSL.jl/pull/104)
* [Gtk.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGraphics/Gtk.jl/pull/447)
* [Rsvg.jl](https://github.com/lobingera/Rsvg.jl/pull/36)

You can read more about the `Artifacts` system and how it is important for reproducibility in this post on Julia's blog "[Pkg + BinaryBuilder -- The Next Generation](https://julialang.org/blog/2019/11/artifacts)".

### BinaryProvider.jl

We hope we convinced you about why it is important to switch to JLL packages.  However, if you really need to support Julia v1.2 or previous versions, you should keep using [BinaryProvider.jl](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/BinaryProvider.jl).  As explained in the previous section, a `build.jl` file is not generated after the build anymore as that is not used for JLL packages, instead you would need to generate it yourself: In the top-directory of Yggdrasil there is a script to do this: [`generate_buildjl.jl`](./generate_buildjl.jl).  It takes three positional arguments:

* the path to the `build_tarballs.jl` script
* the `owner/name` of the repository where the tarballs have been uploaded.  If omitted, this defaults to `JuliaBinaryWrappers/BuilderName_jll.jl`
* the tag name where the tarballs have been uploaded.  If omitted, this defaults to the latest version of the JLL package in the [General registry](https://github.com/JuliaRegistries/General).  If there are no versions of the package in the registry, the script will fail.

For example, to get the `build.jl` file for the latest version of Zlib you can run the following command:

```
julia --color=yes generate_buildjl.jl Z/Zlib/build_tarballs.jl
```

If instead you want to get the `build_tarballs.jl` file for the tag named [Zlib-v1.2.11+6](https://github.com/JuliaBinaryWrappers/Zlib_jll.jl/releases/tag/Zlib-v1.2.11%2B6) you have to run the command

```
julia --color=yes generate_buildjl.jl Z/Zlib/build_tarballs.jl JuliaBinaryWrappers/Zlib_jll.jl Zlib-v1.2.11+6
```

*Note*: you have to manually add `prefix` as the first argument to all `Product` constructors in the generated `build.jl` files.  This is necessary because the syntax between `BinaryBuilder v0.2+` and `BinaryProvider` has diverged.

Remember that you will also need the `build.jl` files for all direct and indirect dependencies.

Here are a few examples of packages using this system to install their libraries:

* [FFMPEG.jl](https://github.com/JuliaIO/FFMPEG.jl/tree/b6cca77f788e58409a13cac5ab6eaa6a5841b5c6/deps);
* [MySQL.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDatabases/MySQL.jl/tree/85bdb2924cb909e258568ae8cb1811948ab0d9b0/deps) uses JLL packages for Julia v1.3+ and `build.jl` scripts with `BinaryProvider.jl` for previous releases.

Commit message:

Make clear the GitHub specific reccomendation

README.md, after:

# Yggdrasil

Build Status: [![Build status](https://badge.buildkite.com/20f068d74db24be50d79ac4710defa74e19d5d912e31f9bda2.svg)](https://buildkite.com/julialang/yggdrasil)

![Yggdrasil](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1282691/177174254-aa90664e-5c20-4ea3-9938-34de961dc198.png)

This repository contains recipes for building binaries for Julia packages using [BinaryBuilder.jl](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/BinaryBuilder.jl).

## Contributing

For detailed information about contributing, go to ["CONTRIBUTING.md"](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Yggdrasil/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). For a quick overview, continue reading.

To update the version to build for an existing recipe, simply open a PR to this repository making the required tweaks. This can be as simple as updating the version number and the source (e.g. for github-hosted resources, update the URL and hash for an archive, or the revision for a repository) of the relevant `build_tarballs.jl` file. Note that in some cases more changes may be needed. A real example for updating the version of a github-hosted resource, see [this PR](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Yggdrasil/pull/8833). The version number should be easy to find, and the URL + hash can be found by clicking the release, clicking the final commit in the release, and copying the information from the URL bar.

To contribute a new recipe, you can either
* use `BinaryBuilder.run_wizard()`, which will automatically open a pull request to this repository after a successfull build for all requested platforms
* Copy another build recipe using it as a template, and then open a manual pull request to this repository

Yggdrasil builds the tarballs using `master` version of BinaryBuilder.jl, which requires Julia 1.3.0 or later versions.  Note that this BinaryBuilder.jl version has some differences compared to v0.1.4 and the builders generated are slightly different.  You are welcome to contribute builders written for  BinaryBuilder.jl v0.1.4, but they will likely need minor adjustements.

[Buildkite CI](https://buildkite.com/julialang/yggdrasil) is used to test that the builders can successfully produce the tarballs.

If you prefer to test your manual buildscript before opening the pull request, we suggest installing `BinaryBuilder.jl` on Julia 1.3 or any following release and running `julia --color=yes build_tarballs.jl --verbose --debug` locally.  On MacOS, you will need to have `docker` installed for this to work.  

## Using the generated tarballs

### JLL packages

The last versions of BinaryBuilder make use of the [`Artifacts` system](https://julialang.github.io/Pkg.jl/dev/artifacts/) shipping in Julia 1.3.  This means that BinaryBuilder no longer generates `build.jl` files that are placed into your Julia package's `deps/` folder, but instead generates whole Julia packages (known colloquially as "jll" packages) that are placed within the [JuliaBinaryWrappers organization](https://github.com/JuliaBinaryWrappers/).  Merged pull requests to Yggdrasil result in new versions of these wrapper packages being generated, uploaded and registered, allowing your client Julia code to simply invoke `using LibFoo_jll` to get ahold of your binaries with no need for a `Pkg.build()` step.  (This will, of course, only be the case for Julia 1.3+).

We encourage Julia developers to use JLL packages for their libraries.  Read the [documention of BinaryBuilder](https://juliapackaging.github.io/BinaryBuilder.jl/dev/jll/) to learn how to use them.

Here are a few examples of pull requests of Julia packages switching to using JLL package to provide the prebuilt binaries to the users:

* [Cairo.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGraphics/Cairo.jl/pull/293)
* [FFTW.jl](https://github.com/JuliaMath/FFTW.jl/pull/122)
* [GSL.jl](https://github.com/JuliaMath/GSL.jl/pull/104)
* [Gtk.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGraphics/Gtk.jl/pull/447)
* [Rsvg.jl](https://github.com/lobingera/Rsvg.jl/pull/36)

You can read more about the `Artifacts` system and how it is important for reproducibility in this post on Julia's blog "[Pkg + BinaryBuilder -- The Next Generation](https://julialang.org/blog/2019/11/artifacts)".

### BinaryProvider.jl

We hope we convinced you about why it is important to switch to JLL packages.  However, if you really need to support Julia v1.2 or previous versions, you should keep using [BinaryProvider.jl](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/BinaryProvider.jl).  As explained in the previous section, a `build.jl` file is not generated after the build anymore as that is not used for JLL packages, instead you would need to generate it yourself: In the top-directory of Yggdrasil there is a script to do this: [`generate_buildjl.jl`](./generate_buildjl.jl).  It takes three positional arguments:

* the path to the `build_tarballs.jl` script
* the `owner/name` of the repository where the tarballs have been uploaded.  If omitted, this defaults to `JuliaBinaryWrappers/BuilderName_jll.jl`
* the tag name where the tarballs have been uploaded.  If omitted, this defaults to the latest version of the JLL package in the [General registry](https://github.com/JuliaRegistries/General).  If there are no versions of the package in the registry, the script will fail.

For example, to get the `build.jl` file for the latest version of Zlib you can run the following command:

```
julia --color=yes generate_buildjl.jl Z/Zlib/build_tarballs.jl
```

If instead you want to get the `build_tarballs.jl` file for the tag named [Zlib-v1.2.11+6](https://github.com/JuliaBinaryWrappers/Zlib_jll.jl/releases/tag/Zlib-v1.2.11%2B6) you have to run the command

```
julia --color=yes generate_buildjl.jl Z/Zlib/build_tarballs.jl JuliaBinaryWrappers/Zlib_jll.jl Zlib-v1.2.11+6
```

*Note*: you have to manually add `prefix` as the first argument to all `Product` constructors in the generated `build.jl` files.  This is necessary because the syntax between `BinaryBuilder v0.2+` and `BinaryProvider` has diverged.

Remember that you will also need the `build.jl` files for all direct and indirect dependencies.

Here are a few examples of packages using this system to install their libraries:

* [FFMPEG.jl](https://github.com/JuliaIO/FFMPEG.jl/tree/b6cca77f788e58409a13cac5ab6eaa6a5841b5c6/deps);
* [MySQL.jl](https://github.com/JuliaDatabases/MySQL.jl/tree/85bdb2924cb909e258568ae8cb1811948ab0d9b0/deps) uses JLL packages for Julia v1.3+ and `build.jl` scripts with `BinaryProvider.jl` for previous releases.
